The
the nature of
life from this planet
is very strongly
imprinted with
the qualities of
the Solar Mandala or the Solar system.
The influence of
every planet is there, cannot be discounted,
but especially the influence of the Earth,
the sun
and the moon
is particularly strong
and visible
very visibly. There
there were in nature
of how
this biological body gets created.
It's very directly connected to the nature of the Earth,
the sun and the moon.
It is not today
even very removed
societies
which did not see
too much civilization,
our culture evolving out of them.
Societies
where no great amount of spiritual process happened.
Even simple tribal societies
could not miss the point
of
the connection
and the influence of
the Earth, the moon and the sun upon the human system.
Of course, at least nobody could miss
the cycles of the moon and the feminine body. How they
connected,
which is
very directly
connected to the making of this physical body.
So the rhythms and the cycles
that
particularly the Earth and the moon go through,
and the moods that the sun goes through.
In the ancient scriptures in
India,
they always talked about the moods of the sun.
Sun is not supposed to be Moody is all the time,
Moon
every day. A new mood
with son is not supposed to have moods,
so this has been laughed at and made fun of.
But today,
very clearly,
scientists are telling us
that
the mood of the sun changes.
They are still not able to
find a cycle
to the moods of the sun.
The modern
solar science, if you can call that
there is such a thing, I don't think so. They are only
interested in solar energy.
For the ancient
text, talk about the moods of the sun
and the moods of the sun. Go through cycles of 12 year
periods.
If you
if you get very,
start Romancing the moon.
Your mood changes every day.
Every 28 days you go through a
cycle.
If you
go by the moods of planet Earth,
the surface moods for her changes every moment.
Because I have just the
where she is exposed
her relationship with the sun
and at what angle of exposure she has at that moment.
Accordingly, her moods change
and the deeper moods
change according to the seasons and
12 month cycles.
So did they just arrive at this?
This is 12 months, so that is 12
years.
No. These patterns have been noticed
that
every 12 years
the type of
solar storms that happen,
No
there are weather changes, weather patterns changing on the
sun surface
and by noticing these patterns they are saying every 12 years
sun goes through cycle.
Why sun going through cycle?
These 2 are going through cycles
because they are spinning and rotating around something.
Why is sun going through a cycle?
His cycles are not of rotation.
His cycles are a fluctuation,
like breathing.
He breathes in and breathe out and breathe in and breathe out.
This is something that has been distinctly noticed in recent
times,
that
the sun surface is violently active at certain periods of
time and certain other periods it settles down.
So in the yogic
tradition,
if someone has
a very steady breathing pattern
which is not subject to emotions, which is not subject
to other aspects. When I say other aspects,
if you observe yourself
how your breath is on a full moon day, how your breath is on
your moon day, how it is on all the other days, if you watch
very carefully, it's different.
You don't realise if the impact of it. People around you will
know.
People who suffer your moods will know. You will not know
so the breath patterns keep changing.
So if someone has a breath pattern which does not change
with his emotion and thought,
they say he has a Surya
Shrivastava.
That means his breath is not subject to the moods.
It is subject to certain patterns, but not because of
emotion and thought.
The idea of
one aspect of doing the type of sadhana that we are doing is
if you want someone to become very
stable,
then we work towards Surya
Ashvasan.
If we want someone to become rhythmic,
then we go for Chandrahasan.